# Save Configurations

## Table of Contents

0. [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
1. [Configuration Files](#configuration-files)
2. [Alter the Running Configurations](#alter-the-running-configurations)
3. [Capture Configuration to a Text File](#capture-configuration-to-a-text-file)

## Configuration Files

- There are two system files that store the device configuration
    - **startup-config**: This is the saved configuration file that is stored in NVRAM. It contains all the commands that will be used by the device upon startup or reboot. Flash does not lose its contents when the device is powered off
    - **running-config**: This is stored in Random Access Memory (RAM). It reflects the current configuration. Modifying a running configuration affects the operation of a Cisco device immediately. RAM is volatile memory. It loses all of its content when the device is powered off or restarted
    - To save changes made to the running configuration to the startup configuration file, use the **copy running-config startup-config** privileged EXEC mode command
```shell
Router# show startup-config
Using 624 bytes
!
version 15.4
no service timestamps log datetime msec
no service timestamps debug datetime msec
no service password-encryption
```

```shell
Router# show running-config
Building configuration...

Current configuration: 624 bytes
!
version 15.4
no service timestamps log datetime msec
no service timestamps debug datetime msec
no service password-encryption
```

## Alter the Running Configurations

- If changes made to the running config do not have the desired effect and the running-config has not yet been saved, you can restore the device to its previous configuration. To do this, you can:
    - Remove the changed commands individually
    - Reload the device using the **reload** command in privileged EXEC mode. *Note: This will cause the device to briefly go offline, leading to network downtime*
```shell
Router# reload
Proceed with reload? [confirm]
initializing hardware...
```
- If the undesired changes were saved to the startup config, it may be necessary to clear all the configurations using the **erase startup-config** command in privileged EXEC mode
    - After erasing the startup-config, reload the device to clear the running-config file from RAM
```shell
Router# erase startup-config
Erasing the nvram filesystem will remove all configuration files! Continue? [confirm]
 [OK]
Erase of nvram: complete
%SYS-7-NV_BLOCK_INIT: Initialized the geometry of nvram
Router#
```

## Capture Configuration to a Text File

- Configuration files can also be saved and archived to a text document
- **Step 1**:
    - Open terminal emulation software, such as PuTTY or Tera Term, that is already connected to a switch
- **Step 2**:
    - Enable logging into the terminal software and assign a name and file location to save the log file. The figure displays that **All session output** will be captured to the file specified (*i.e., MySwitchLogs*)
- **Step 3**:
    - Execute the **show running-config** or **show starting-config** command at the privileged EXEC prompt. Text displayed in the terminal window will be placed in the chosen file
- **Step 4**:
    - Disable logging into the terminal software. The figure shows how to disable logging by choosing the **None** session logging option
- *Note: The text file created can be used as a record of how the device is currently being implemented. The file could require editing before being used to restore a saved configuration to a device*
